.\" Man page for claude-dotfiles status.sh
.\" To view: man ./man/man1/claude-dotfiles-status.1
.TH CLAUDE\-DOTFILES\-STATUS 1 "May 2026" "claude-dotfiles 1.5.0" "Claude Code Tools"
.SH NAME
claude\-dotfiles\-status \- check the health and sync state of your claude-dotfiles installation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bash
.I <dotfiles\-dir>/scripts/status.sh
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Checks the health of your claude-dotfiles installation across four areas:
machine configuration, CLAUDE.md symlink integrity, claude-dotfiles version,
and personal config repo sync state. Designed to be run at any time —
especially before starting a work session.
.PP
Setup is not considered complete until all four checks pass. In particular,
the personal config repo must be connected, synced, and contain a personalised
CLAUDE.md (identity section filled in).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage summary and exit.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress all output. Use the exit code only (0 = ok, 1 = issues found).
Suitable for scripting and CI.
.SH CHECKS
.TP
.B Machine config
Verifies \fI~/.claude/machine.json\fR exists and can be parsed.
.TP
.B CLAUDE.md
Verifies \fI~/.claude/CLAUDE.md\fR is present, the symlink target exists, and
the identity section (name, role, location) has been filled in.
.TP
.B claude-dotfiles
Fetches the remote and compares the local HEAD with the upstream tracking
branch. Warns if updates are available.
.TP
.B Personal config repo
Verifies the repo recorded in \fBpersonal_config_dir\fR (machine.json) is
present and in sync with its remote. Required — setup is incomplete without it.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All checks passed.
.TP
.B 1
One or more checks flagged a warning or error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run a full status check:
.B bash ~/.local/share/claude-dotfiles/scripts/status.sh
.TP
Use in a script or CI step:
.B bash ~/.local/share/claude-dotfiles/scripts/status.sh --quiet || echo "Config needs attention"
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.claude/machine.json
Read for: name, os, dotfiles_dir, personal_config_dir.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/CLAUDE.md
Checked for existence, symlink integrity, and placeholder identity values.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B HOME
Used to locate \fI~/.claude/\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude-dotfiles (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-setup (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-update (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Spyced Concepts Ltd. <https://spycedconcepts.co.uk>
