.\" Man page for claude-dotfiles check-docs.sh
.\" To view: man ./man/man1/claude-dotfiles-check-docs.1
.TH CLAUDE\-DOTFILES\-CHECK\-DOCS 1 "May 2026" "claude-dotfiles 1.5.0" "Claude Code Tools"
.SH NAME
claude\-dotfiles\-check\-docs \- verify that all scripts, commands, and documentation meet project standards
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bash
.I <dotfiles\-dir>/scripts/check-docs.sh
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Runs a series of documentation quality checks against the claude-dotfiles
repository. Designed to run before every PR and on every push (via CI). All
checks must pass before a feature branch can be merged to a release branch.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage summary and exit.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress all output. Use the exit code only. Suitable for CI pipelines.
.SH CHECKS
.TP
.B 1. Scripts — --help support
Every \fI.sh\fR file in \fIscripts/\fR must contain a \fB--help\fR flag.
.TP
.B 2. Scripts — man pages
Every \fI.sh\fR file in \fIscripts/\fR must have a corresponding man page at
\fIman/man1/claude-dotfiles-<name>.1\fR.
.TP
.B 3. Man pages — required sections
Every man page must contain: \fBNAME\fR, \fBSYNOPSIS\fR, \fBDESCRIPTION\fR,
\fBOPTIONS\fR, \fBEXIT STATUS\fR, \fBEXAMPLES\fR, \fBSEE ALSO\fR.
.TP
.B 4. Commands — title line
Every \fI.md\fR file in \fIcommands/\fR must begin with a markdown title
(\fB# Title\fR).
.TP
.B 5. README.md — required sections
\fIREADME.md\fR must contain all required top-level sections.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All checks passed.
.TP
.B 1
One or more checks failed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run before opening a PR:
.B bash ./scripts/check-docs.sh
.TP
Use in CI (quiet mode):
.B bash ./scripts/check-docs.sh --quiet || exit 1
.TP
Run as a Claude Code AI command:
.B --docscheck
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude-dotfiles (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-setup (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-status (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Spyced Concepts Ltd. <https://spycedconcepts.co.uk>
