.\" Man page for claude-dotfiles
.\" To view: man ./man/man1/claude-dotfiles.1
.TH CLAUDE\-DOTFILES 1 "May 2026" "claude-dotfiles 1.5.0" "Claude Code Tools"
.SH NAME
claude\-dotfiles \- personal configuration framework for Claude Code
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bash
.I <dotfiles\-dir>/scripts/setup.sh
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B bash
.I <dotfiles\-dir>/scripts/update.sh
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.br
.B bash
.I <dotfiles\-dir>/scripts/status.sh
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBclaude\-dotfiles\fR is a tool-agnostic personal configuration framework for
Claude Code (Anthropic's AI CLI). It keeps your \fBCLAUDE.md\fR global
configuration in a version-controlled git repository and deploys it to the
correct location on each machine via symlinks.
.PP
Configuration is split into two repos:
.IP "Public tool"
\fISpyced\-Concepts/claude\-dotfiles\fR — the framework scripts, built-in commands,
templates, and schemas. Clone this; do not fork it.
.IP "Personal config (required)"
\fIyourname/claude\-config\fR — your private GitHub repo containing your
identity, custom commands, and personal \fBCLAUDE.md\fR. Created interactively
by \fBsetup.sh\fR. Must be a private repo.
.PP
Machine-specific paths (\fB~/.claude/machine.json\fR) stay local and are never
committed anywhere.
.SH SCRIPTS
.TP
.B scripts/setup.sh
One-time setup on a new machine. Interactive — guides you through all
configuration including connecting your personal config repo.
.TP
.B scripts/update.sh
Pull the latest claude-dotfiles and redeploy symlinks. Safe to re-run.
.TP
.B scripts/status.sh
Check health and sync state: machine.json, CLAUDE.md symlink, claude-dotfiles
version, personal config repo sync. Exits 1 if any checks fail.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.claude/CLAUDE.md
Symlink → your personal config repo's CLAUDE.md (or the public template if
no personal repo is connected). Loaded by Claude Code in every session.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/machine.json
Machine-specific paths. Never committed. See \fBmachine.json\fR(5) for schema.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/settings.json
Claude Code permissions allowlist. Copied from template on first setup.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/commands/
Directory of custom command files. Each \fI.md\fR file is a command Claude
executes when invoked via the configured prefix (e.g. \fB--daily\fR).
.SH OPTIONS
Each script accepts its own options. The common option across all scripts is:
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage summary and exit.
.PP
See the individual man pages for script-specific options:
.BR claude-dotfiles-setup (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-status (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-update (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-check-docs (1).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
First-time setup on a new machine:
.B bash ~/Projects/claude-dotfiles/scripts/setup.sh
.TP
Check if anything needs attention:
.B bash ~/Projects/claude-dotfiles/scripts/status.sh
.TP
Pull latest updates:
.B bash ~/Projects/claude-dotfiles/scripts/update.sh
.TP
One-line install (downloads and runs setup):
.B curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Spyced-Concepts/claude-dotfiles/main/install.sh | bash
.SH EXIT STATUS
All scripts exit 0 on success and 1 on error or when issues are found.
.B status.sh
exits 1 if any check fails, making it suitable for scripting.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B HOME
Used to locate \fI~/.claude/\fR. Must be set.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude-dotfiles-setup (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-update (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-status (1)
.PP
Full documentation: https://github.com/Spyced-Concepts/claude-dotfiles
.SH AUTHOR
Spyced Concepts Ltd. <https://spycedconcepts.co.uk>
.SH LICENSE
MIT — see LICENSE file in the source repository.
