.\" Man page for claude-dotfiles setup.sh
.\" To view: man ./man/man1/claude-dotfiles-setup.1
.TH CLAUDE\-DOTFILES\-SETUP 1 "May 2026" "claude-dotfiles 1.5.0" "Claude Code Tools"
.SH NAME
claude\-dotfiles\-setup \- guided first-time setup of claude-dotfiles on a machine
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bash
.I <dotfiles\-dir>/scripts/setup.sh
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Interactive setup script. Run once on any new machine to deploy your Claude Code
configuration. Safe to re-run — existing configuration is preserved and updated
in place.
.PP
Setup is not considered complete until a personal private config repo is
connected. This repo holds your identity (name, role, location), custom commands,
and personal CLAUDE.md overrides.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage summary and exit.
.SH STEPS
.IP "1." 4
Checks Claude Code CLI is installed.
.IP "2." 4
Detects whether the GitHub CLI (\fBgh\fR) is available. If present, the script
can create and scaffold your personal config repo automatically.
.IP "3." 4
Creates \fI~/.claude/\fR if it does not exist.
.IP "4." 4
Symlinks \fBCLAUDE.md\fR to \fI~/.claude/CLAUDE.md\fR.
.IP "5." 4
Installs built-in commands into \fI~/.claude/commands/\fR (optional).
.IP "6." 4
Creates or updates \fI~/.claude/machine.json\fR. Records \fBdotfiles_dir\fR
(path to this repo) so status checks can locate it.
.IP "7." 4
Creates or updates \fI~/.claude/settings.json\fR from template.
.IP "8." 4
Connects your personal config repo. Options:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
You already have one — paste the clone URL.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBgh\fR installed — create it automatically.
.IP \(bu 2
No \fBgh\fR — step-by-step manual instructions, then paste URL.
.IP \(bu 2
Skip for now — re-run setup later.
.RE
.IP "9." 4
Records \fBpersonal_config_dir\fR in machine.json; symlinks personal commands;
updates the CLAUDE.md symlink to point to your personal CLAUDE.md.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Setup completed (fully or partially).
.TP
.B 1
A required dependency was missing (e.g. Claude Code CLI not found).
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
First-time setup:
.B bash ~/Projects/claude-dotfiles/scripts/setup.sh
.TP
Re-run after installing gh to connect your personal config repo:
.B bash ~/Projects/claude-dotfiles/scripts/setup.sh
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.claude/machine.json
Created or updated. Contains: name, os, home, project_root, knowledge_dirs,
dotfiles_dir, personal_config_dir, command_prefix_enabled, command_prefix.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/settings.json
Created from template if not present.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/commands/
Populated with symlinks to public built-in commands and personal commands.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude-dotfiles (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-status (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-update (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Spyced Concepts Ltd. <https://spycedconcepts.co.uk>
