.\" Man page for claude-dotfiles update.sh
.\" To view: man ./man/man1/claude-dotfiles-update.1
.TH CLAUDE\-DOTFILES\-UPDATE 1 "May 2026" "claude-dotfiles 1.5.0" "Claude Code Tools"
.SH NAME
claude\-dotfiles\-update \- pull the latest claude-dotfiles and personal config, then redeploy symlinks
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bash
.I <dotfiles\-dir>/scripts/update.sh
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Non-interactive update script. Pulls the latest changes from the
claude-dotfiles remote and from your personal config repo, then
redeploys all symlinks without prompting. Safe to run at any time.
.PP
Does \fBnot\fR modify \fImachine.json\fR or \fIsettings.json\fR. Run
\fBsetup.sh\fR to make configuration changes interactively.
.PP
Personal commands added to your private config repo are automatically
symlinked into \fI~/.claude/commands/\fR after the pull. Personal
commands override public built-ins of the same name.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage summary and exit.
.SH STEPS
.IP "1." 4
\fBgit pull\fR in the claude-dotfiles repo.
.IP "2." 4
\fBgit pull\fR in your personal config repo (if \fBpersonal_config_dir\fR
is set in \fImachine.json\fR).
.IP "3." 4
Refreshes the \fI~/.claude/CLAUDE.md\fR symlink — personal config CLAUDE.md
if it exists, otherwise the public template.
.IP "4." 4
Refreshes all command symlinks in \fI~/.claude/commands/\fR:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
Removes stale symlinks whose source file no longer exists.
.IP \(bu 2
Re-links all public built-in commands from \fIcommands/\fR.
.IP \(bu 2
Re-links all personal commands from \fIpersonal_config_dir/commands/\fR,
overriding public built-ins of the same name.
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Update completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
A git pull or symlink operation failed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Update claude-dotfiles and personal config:
.B bash ~/.local/share/claude-dotfiles/scripts/update.sh
.TP
Using the alias added by install.sh:
.B claude-update
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude-dotfiles (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-setup (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-status (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Spyced Concepts Ltd. <https://spycedconcepts.co.uk>
