.\" Man page for claude-dotfiles uninstall.sh
.\" To view: man ./man/man1/claude-dotfiles-uninstall.1
.TH CLAUDE\-DOTFILES\-UNINSTALL 1 "May 2026" "claude-dotfiles 1.5.0" "Claude Code Tools"
.SH NAME
claude\-dotfiles\-uninstall \- remove claude-dotfiles from this machine and return to a clean state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bash
.I <dotfiles\-dir>/scripts/uninstall.sh
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Removes claude-dotfiles symlinks from \fI~/.claude/\fR and returns Claude Code
to a standalone configuration with no dependency on any git repo.
.PP
Offers to:
.IP \(bu 2
Restore a plain local \fI~/.claude/CLAUDE.md\fR so Claude Code continues to work
.IP \(bu 2
Remove \fImachine.json\fR and \fIsettings.json\fR
.IP \(bu 2
Delete the dotfiles repo and personal config repo (with strong confirmation)
.PP
Nothing is deleted without explicit confirmation at each step.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show usage summary and exit.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip the initial "Continue?" prompt. Individual deletion steps still require confirmation.
.SH STEPS
.IP "1." 4
Removes the \fI~/.claude/CLAUDE.md\fR symlink (if it is a symlink). Offers to
restore a plain local copy from your personal config or the public template.
.IP "2." 4
Removes all command symlinks from \fI~/.claude/commands/\fR. Regular
(non-symlinked) files are left in place.
.IP "3." 4
Asks whether to remove \fI~/.claude/machine.json\fR and
\fI~/.claude/settings.json\fR. Both are kept by default.
.IP "4." 4
Asks whether to delete the personal config repo and the claude-dotfiles repo.
Requires typing \fBYES\fR to confirm each. Both are kept by default.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Uninstall completed (whether or not individual items were removed).
.TP
.B 1
A required operation failed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Interactive uninstall:
.B bash ~/.local/share/claude-dotfiles/scripts/uninstall.sh
.TP
Skip initial prompt (still asks per-item):
.B bash ~/.local/share/claude-dotfiles/scripts/uninstall.sh --yes
.TP
Reinstall after uninstalling:
.B curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Spyced-Concepts/claude-dotfiles/main/install.sh | bash
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR claude-dotfiles (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-setup (1),
.BR claude-dotfiles-status (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Spyced Concepts Ltd. <https://spycedconcepts.co.uk>
